Group Therapy (Fall 2018-Winter 2019)
Anxiety, Depression and Mood
This is a list of all group therapy sessions offered in Fall 2018 and Winter 2019. Offerings are given based on the clinical needs of students as determined by surveys and professional assessments, and this list is not a guarantee that the same sessions will be offered again.
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Social Anxiety
Students will examine what makes them anxious and will work at managing and decreasing the anxiety in social or performance situations.
The three principal themes covered are cognitive strategies to reduce anxiety, systematic desensitization to feared social situations and social skills building.
Appropriate for: Students with probable Social Anxiety Disorder.
Humanistic Therapy for Social Anxiety & Isolation
This group will introduce participants to a variety of activities to help manage social anxiety and aid students in developing insight, personal goals, and an unconditional positive regard towards themselves.
Appropriate for: Students who are isolated or experiencing mild to moderate social anxiety.
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy Group for Mood & Anxiety
This group will introduce students to a variety of techniques to help manage anxiety and depression, including strategies for relaxation, improving mood, managing stress and achieving more balanced thinking.
Appropriate for: Students experiencing mild to moderate anxiety and/or depression.
Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Mood & Anxiety
Students will learn skills to handle painful thoughts and feelings and reduce their impact and influence. The goal is to fundamentally transform students’ relationships to their thoughts and feelings through acceptance and mindful choice.
Participants also identify their values and use that knowledge to enrich their lives.
Appropriate for: Students with mild to moderate anxiety and/or mood dysregulation concerns.
Emotion Regulation Therapy
The goal is to help students develop emotional awareness and understanding of negative emotions. Students will also learn new strategies to lessen the intensity and duration of emotional responses and learn to accept negative emotions.
Finally, this therapy group aims to help student increase positive emotions by engaging in activities that bring joy.
Appropriate for: Students experiencing mild to moderate anxiety and/or depression.
Art Therapy for Mood & Anxiety
This art therapy group will use visual arts to process and gain insight into anxiety and mood.
Art activities aimed towards relaxation, stress management and self-expression as well as group discussion and self-reflection will be integrated each week.
Appropriate for: Students experiencing mild to moderate anxiety and/or depression.
Exercise for Mood & Anxiety
The program will show the many mental benefits of exercise and equip participants with practical tools to start exercising. Weekly discussions explore mental health and other personal issues and incorporate physical exercise.
The program will also introduce strategies like self-talk, mindfulness and goal setting. Appropriate for: Students with depression, anxiety or other mood-related concerns.
Exercise for Mood & Anxiety (Brief)
This new therapy group will include a 30 to 60-minute exercise session followed by group discussions of students’ current distress. The exercise forms for the group will be yoga, essentrics and spinning taught by the certified group facilitators.
All skill levels welcome!
Appropriate for: Students experiencing mild to moderate anxiety and depression or loneliness/isolation.

Trauma
Cognitive Processing Therapy for Survivors of Sexual Assault
This group is intended for students who experience post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and related conditions as a result of sexual trauma. The goal of CPT is to improve one’s understanding of PTSD, reduce distress related to the trauma memories, decrease emotional numbing and avoidance, decrease anxiety, guilt and shame, and improve day-to-day living.
Appropriate for: Female-identified students who are sexual assault survivors and meet sub-threshold or full criteria for PTSD diagnosis.
Sleep
This group is intended for students who are struggling to have consistent and restful sleep. Topics covered will include a guided discussion on the conceptualization of sleep, strategies to make sleep more restful and the process of implementing deliberate change.
Appropriate for: Students who are struggling to have consistent and restful sleep.
Body Image
Building a Healthy Body Image
Students will explore their personal body image and their relationship to their body. They will develop skills to understand their body image, explore their inner dialogue about their body, identify unhealthy behaviours and learn to accept and treat their bodies well.
Appropriate for: Students who struggle with self-esteem and body image.
Grief and Loss
Living with Loss
This group provides a supportive place for grieving students to come together to share and receive support.
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Insomnia

Appropriate for: Students struggling with the death of a loved one.
Coping with the End of a Relationship
This group offers a safe space for people to connect and support one another after a significant relationship has ended. In addition, weekly themes focusing on healthy relationships will be brought to the group for discussion.
The goals of this group are to move towards acceptance, create coherence around the event and learn more about oneself.
Appropriate for: Students who have recently experienced the end of a significant romantic relationship.
