McGill Students' Nightline

What do we do?

McGill Students’ Nightline is a confidential, anonymous, and non-judgmental listening service run by McGill students. We aim to provide the community with a variety of support, which includes anything from information to crisis management and referrals. We are an English service.

McGill Students’ Nightline & Chatline will be closed during the summer and will re-open in late August towards the beginning of the academic year. Please keep an eye on this website and our social media for updates. As always, we welcome your feedback via our anonymous form. 

Feel free to click here for other phone lines, chat lines and resources.

Please note: As we are a non-professional, student-based active listening service, in specific circumstances where you may be at risk of harm to yourself or others, we will connect you to Tracom, a crisis centre who will be better equipped to meet your needs. We still welcome every call made to our service and look forward to hearing from you.

Who can call us?

Anyone and everyone can call us! Although McGill students are our main callers, we accept calls from everyone.

Why should you call us?

McGill Students’ Nightline serves many functions.

We are an information and referral service.
We are here to help you find the answer to pretty much any question you can think of. Whether you need directions, are wondering about an academic policy, or want to know how to bake lasagna, we can help you out! Additionally, we can offer referrals to a multitude of McGill and Montreal services. Feel free to ask us for anything from a pizza delivery number to a Montreal drop-in clinic.

We are an active listening service.
Sometimes friends give too much advice, sometimes you might feel uncomfortable talking to those around you, and sometimes you really just want something to be kept confidential. That’s okay, and that’s why we’re here! If you’re stressed out about school, or maybe you find yourself really missing home, give us a call—we’re here to listen and help you work through whatever you’re feeling.

We are trained in crisis management.
A crisis is any situation where you feel overwhelmed and may not know what to do. Some examples include a sudden loss in your life, an uncomfortable drug trip, and sexual assault. Please give us a call if you ever experience anything that feels out of your control. We’re here to support you, no matter what life might throw your way.

Please note that while these three points are a convenient way of describing our service, we really do take calls about absolutely anything! So no matter what’s on your mind, pick up the phone- we’re here for you.

